# Sentimental Stats
This is the Scala team's term project for ITCS 4102/5102. The Sentimental Stats project will collect and analyze subjective impressions of a sports teams performance from news outlets and social media, and attempt to generate useful predictions of a team's future performance as evaluated through both those sentimental stats and publicly available 'objective' stats, such as margin-of-victory.

## Informal Description/ Roadmap
As envisioned now, the Sentimental Stats program will have several modules:
1 **A Web Crawler** that finds and collects news and social media posts written about a given sports team's season. This may use Google's [Custom Search API](https://developers.google.com/custom-search/json-api/v1/overview), Twitter's REST/Streaming APIs, Reddit's API, and a simple single-domain web crawler for exploring previously-discovered 3rd-party sites.
2 **A Scraper/Parser** to identify, categorize and normalize content the Crawler discovers. Extra information captured about each opinion might be the author, source (tweet, comment, news article), site, and date written.
3 **A Sentiment Analysis Module** ([Sentiment Analysis on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sentiment_analysis) which will derive measurable statistics about subjective opinions. For example, it might try to discern predictions about a particular result (team will lose/win), degree of confidence, general sentiment towards the team (like/dislike, fan/not-fan), or conditions that aren't usually captured by stats (if a game is a rivalry, if a team is a particularly bad matchup, if a player is sick/injured or otherwise expected to perform poorly).
4 **Statistical Analysis Module** which will, at a minimum, compare the 'subjective' stats collected by the sentiment analysis with publicly-available 'objective' statistics (such as win/loss, margin of victory, etc.), compute more advanced statistics from the basic ones (efficiency, usage, etc.), and look for correlations.
5 **Presentation Module** If we have time, it would be nice if the program could also present interesting results (correlations, overlaying graphs, bayesian analysis of simple hypotheses) after it has computed them. If we have even more time, publishing and automatically updating the results would be pretty cool.
